Dear Valued Customer,

 

As you may be aware the conditions of Durban port after the flooding, we wish to share with you the following details.

 

Operations issues - Rail / Road / Terminal Operations:

Vessel movement(berthing & sailing) commenced from the evening of 12 Apr 2022. All stacks of dry cargos and empty containers from Pier 1 and DCT have been suspended until further notice.

Transnet Port Terminal(TPT) has completed the interim solution of the rehabilitation to Bayhead and stacks of reefers through Bayhead Road as trial was opened from the night of 17 Apr 2022. The Bluff area is still allowed as an option for the movement of trucks out of Bayhead until further notice.

Inland fuel pipeline currently being assessed. Probability of Fuel shortages in KZN

Transnet Rail Service (TFR) advised that a number of sidings/routes are currently closed due to major damage. Repairs can take up to 2 weeks

The TNPA Port of Durban has 3 working tugs in operation and 5 pilots. They have planned for 7 incoming and 4 sailing vessel movements as of 17 Apr 2022. 

 

Depot damages/ operation lost/ empty release:

All Durban empty Depots are currently are closed since 12th April for repairs in their infrastructure

No empty containers can be released until further notice till depot fully recover from the impact from flood.

 

COSCO SHIPPING Lines will seek to provide as much clarity as possible for all our export and import customers, we can confirm to all our customers of below special policy

Detention & Demurrage for both import and export will be frozen from Apr 11 to Apr 19.

Demurrage Depot Storage for import will be frozen from Apr 11 to Apr 19.

Demurrage terminal Storage will be based on the TPT relief offered.

 

We value our customer most and will continue to keep you informed. If you have any doubts, please do not hesitate to contact your local COSCO SHIPPING Lines representatives.

Thanks for your full understand and continuous support.

 

 

Yours sincerely,

COSCO SHIPPING Lines